- [Narrator] My grading the Spring Boot 2.0
can require a lot of individual changes
to your application, and I just wanted to run through
some of the other constructs that have changed
in case you run into those during an upgrade.
Now, Reactive is one of the big changes,
and it's not one that I think a lot of
people are using previously in Spring Boot 1.5,
but if you were, there are some changes.
So all of support for Reactive
comes from Spring 5, so you get WebFlux,
and the WebFlux.fn which we have
already talked about previously in this course.
You also get Reactive Spring Data
for databases like Cassandra, as well as
several other Reactive-capable databases.
You get Reactive Spring Security,
and this is from my buddy Rob Winch,
and this is some powerful, powerful stuff
if you're working in a Reactive world.
The entire Spring Security ecosystem
now works with Reactive code, and that allows
you to use your consistent Spring Security constructs
now into another incantation of web.
You also now have Embedded Netty
which is utilized for these Reactive streams.
As we talked about earlier as well,
you now have support for HTTP/2.
Support comes from Tomcat, Undertow, and Jetty.
Now, all three of those do require
some level of configuration.
We did an example where Tomcat, where
we had to provide to the Tomcat container
a truststore and a keystore,
and you will find the same thing
for Jetty, as well as Undertow.
This really can be faster and safer for your customers,
so if you have the opportunity to move to HTTP/2,
I encourage you to do so.
Your SEO results may also improve
by doing this as more and more sites
are really going to start looking
that you are running on SSL instead
of standard HTTP, and the list goes on and on.
There's also been some tooling changes
within Spring Boot.
The Gradle plugin, for instance,
got a complete rewrite, so if you're using Gradle,
instead of Maven, be aware that the Gradle plugin changed,
and you might just inspect some
of your builds as you start out.
You have Kotlin support for version 1.2 of Kotlin.
If you haven't messed with Kotlin as a language,
I encourage you to do so.
It's kind of a fun language to code in,
but in addition, it is very powerful
when dealing with some of the constructs
like AMET ability that we now are getting in Spring 5.
And we now get Animated ASCII art,
because that is so important during start-up.
And I bring it up as a little bit of a joke,
but really it's about providing you with value.
In my every-day world, I use tools
that are written on Spring Boot
as well as write my own, and it's amazing
some of the ASCII art that gets brought
into these applications, and it
becomes really kind of cool as you're hopping around,
because then you can see in the logs
which application is running in case you have
some kind of a mental block; you're like,
oh, what server was I looking at?
You can see it in the logs, in that ASCII art.
And the animated, it's fun, but OK it's there.
Now the list goes on from there, and the documentation
does spell out all of the changes,
but some of the big ones that I think you may touch on:
Data Hibernate has been upgraded and changed,
JdbcTemplate, this one's big; you now by default get an
auto-configured, named parameter JdbcTemplate
which is much more secure when dealing
with things like SQL injection prevention.
There's some changes to Redis, and Flyway
if you're using that for database management.
Again, take a look at the documentation on that.
Web Context path logging, so this is
kind of powerful when you're looking
at the logs at the start-up of your application,
and you're like OK, where's the root context.
You now will see that in the log;
there's been some changes that we've talked
about with JSON, and we saw earlier with JSON B,
Thymeleaf upgrades and Thymeleaf changes.
If you're using Quartz, and I've used
Quartz professionally in many applications,
you now get some auto-configuration around that.
So if you're using Quartz applications
for timed events that happened,
take a look at that auto-config,
it may save you some of your existing config,
and it may give you a little bit more
continuity with the way that Quartz works
in relationship to your other Spring Boot applications.
And all of the testing changes that
we have already seen throughout Spring 5.
You get all of that within Spring Boot
and a few other little bells and whistles
that may make your life easier going forward.
So all in all, I think Spring Boot 2 is a great improvement,
and I think that it's something you should look at